priorities apply to HTTP and may be used by extensions (#1559)
httpwg/http-extensions: draft-ietf-httpbis-priority.md

this scheme's priority signal. Handling of omitted signals is described in
{{parameters}}.

# Applicability of the Extensible Priority Scheme

The priority scheme defined by this document considers only the prioritization
of HTTP response data. Clients express priority values to a server, which are
input into scheduling decisions, see {{client-scheduling}} and

> {{server-scheduling}}.

Reviewer: Not that I have a good suggestion at this moment, but it seems to me that this text has two issues:
* It contradicts with {{client-scheduling}}, which says that a client might use the priority signal for scheduling "requests."
* Payload of successful CONNECT request is not HTTP response, but I think we are going to cover them in this specification? Assuming that is the case, prioritization is not limited to HTTP messages.

Author: Thanks, you're right on both counts. 

Over on https://github.com/httpwg/http-extensions/pull/1544/files, we're trying to accommodate the CONNECT method. So we could borrow some ideas. I'll follow up with a suggestion...

Author: Incorporated your simplified suggestion now, so resolving this thread

> The priority scheme defined by this document considers only the prioritization
> of HTTP response data. Clients express priority values to a server, which are
> input into scheduling decisions, see {{client-scheduling}} and
> {{server-scheduling}}.

Author: ```suggestion
The primary use case for the priority scheme defined by this document is the
prioritization of HTTP response data, which is transmitted as HTTP/2 or HTTP/3
DATA frames. Clients express priority values to a server using signals in the
form of a header field {{header-field}} or frame {{frame}}).  Signals are input
into scheduling decisions based on several factors (see {{merging}} and
{{server-scheduling}}). Clients can also use priority values for local
scheduling, see {{client-scheduling}}.
```

Author: @kazuho does that address your comments?

Reviewer: Thank you for the suggestion. New text is technically correct though I wonder if we can condense the text, or remove references to HTTP/2, HTTP/3, considering the fact that we have been trying to be version-agnostic.

Maybe something as simple as: _The priority scheme defined by this document considers only the prioritization of HTTP messages and the payload of CONNECT method, see {{client-scheduling}}, {{server-scheduling}}, {{CONNECT}}._

Author: thanks, I've taken that!

> The priority scheme defined by this document considers only the prioritization
> of HTTP response data. Clients express priority values to a server, which are
> input into scheduling decisions, see {{client-scheduling}} and
> {{server-scheduling}}.

Author: ```suggestion
The priority scheme defined by this document considers only the prioritization
of HTTP messages and tunnels, see {{client-scheduling}}, {{server-scheduling}},
and {TODO: xref to CONNECT, depends on
https://github.com/httpwg/http-extensions/pull/1544}
```

Where HTTP extensions change stream behavior or define new data carriage

> mechanisms, they MAY also define how this priority scheme can be applied.

Reviewer: This paragraph LGTM.

Reviewer 2: FWIW, I would prefer s/MAY/can/ - there is no normative effect of a choice.

Author: missed this while tagging the release sorry. I'll create a followup ticket to roll into next round of editorial changes.

Author: see https://github.com/httpwg/http-extensions/issues/1571
